good
morning still our community or afternoon
wherever you may happen to be evening I
don't know bill the night it's worth it
to show up for this this is the first of
our Stellar engineering talks
my name is Tyler van der Hooven and
we're gonna be talking about practical
path payments today if you have
questions along the way or already have
questions we have two places where you
can put in your questions either on the
Stellar events page Stellar org forward
slash events click on the practical path
payments and then the bottom right-hand
corner is a little box where you can ask
some questions or if you are tuning in
via YouTube you can just ask your
questions there in the chat and we will
get to those closer to the end the goal
here with our engineering talks is to
have relatively short and very pointed
discussions around specific aspects of
the Stellar blockchain so today we'll be
talking about path payments
so a path payment is a means of it's a
payment right so if you've ever used
payments on Stellar or you're
essentially just passing a set a from
holiday to why would be that they
receive the same asset so this is very
common this is the way we think about
payments today I have a dollar and I
give you that dollar and we've just made
a payment a path payment is quite
different and I think I believe path
name is to be one of the most
interesting and important aspects of
this teller blockchain and there's
nothing necessarily new or incredibly
different about path payments but what
they allow you to do with with their
very tight packaging the the feature
that is a path payment kind of pulls
together a lot of different aspects of
payments and order books and allows you
to do things that you really couldn't
otherwise do without a lot of headache
so as we start to think about path
payments it really should get your
wheels turning on oh I wonder if I could
do X Y Z or oh this really allows
something that we hadn't really hadn't
really had the ability or capability to
do so it's this idea of transferring
value not just assets understanding and
making use of one of sellers most
powerful Sevilla weapons a path payment
is a payment made through the Dex the
distributed Stellar distributed exchange
or decentralized exchange that probably
doesn't make any sense but let's let's
kind of walk through a little bit so
vanilla pod payments we've already our
vanilla payments we've already talked
about that a little bit traditional
standard payments simply move an asset
from address a to be nothing fancy you
have any asset and you make a payment to
your friend who will receive any of
those houses that you sent them nothing
fancy they're very essential but they
are simple basic boring and I think if
we only think of payments in that way
we're missing a huge part of what
Stellar allows us to do so incomes path
payments path payments move your asset
you're given asset through the
decentralized exchange before arriving
at the final destination so we'll walk
through some examples of what that means
but essentially if vanilla payments move
assets path payments move value and
that's that's fun that's a fundamentally
important thing to understand when I'm
trying to think through what a path
payment is that you have an asset you're
not just trying to move an asset from
someone to somebody else you're moving
the value of that asset so whatever is
behind whatever that asset allows you to
do whether that's buying groceries are
paying rent or buying a house or maybe
it is the house whatever that value is
you're how do I move that value to to
the the third party via the other person
that I want to pay as opposed to just
moving the asset so if you have USD as
an example here USD exilim or a gold
token you make it past a manure and who
can receive any of those any one of any
asset on the order book the value of
that thing so I may pay you with US
Dollars and it goes through these
different paths of maybe a pizza token
which then goes to a gold token and
finally arriving in in your wallet as a
euro token this obviously is gonna
require some order book stuff to make
that happen and we'll take a look again
in a moment about what those things are
but essentially you never hold euros and
your friend never holds USD in this
example that I just showed never latigo
stiva the value of my USD has arrived
safely through the asset paths a pizza
and gold in that case to this in this
final payment to you so you foresee the
value of my USD you've just received it
in a euro token so let's take some let's
take a look at the practical aspect
again you might be thinking that sounds
interesting but I don't know exactly how
that helps me either as a user or a
developer of an application so let's
take a look at a market order on TV so
this is something that is very common in
other exchanges where you can just make
market orders right so inside of our
kiba's wallet here we are going to make
a payment this I recently discovered
this this is quite fantastic use of path
payment so I'm just going to pay myself
so most the time when we think of
payments we're paying somebody else but
I'm actually going to pay myself I'm
going to send other assets so this would
just be the standard payment flow if we
click on send some other asset i would
click on send some other asset I would
like to receive u.s. dollars let's say I
want to get five and I want to send
excellent so this is essentially I'm
going to send 107 xlm to receive five US
dollars and so this will be a market
order that essentially I pay a hundred
and seven lumens and I'm going to get in
exchange for that five dollars so this
is a market order that I can use to pay
myself five dollars without ever
touching an exchange all I did was spend
time in a basic wallet interface in am
able to receive other assets any of
these assets that I've created a trust
line for so hopefully that will go
through and we will receive some of
those tokens sweet we've gotten our five
US Dollars and we spent we spent those
one hundred and seven lumens to receive
to receive those five US dollar tokens
so fantastic we've achieved market
orders through path names we never had
to touch in exchange and that's the
beauty ever right so an exchange did
happen and an order book was touched I
just didn't have to do it manually it
happened in the background through the
path famous write an order on the order
book of us of the anchor USD tokens was
consumed a hundred and seven lumens were
spent on somebody somebody had an order
out there that said I'm willing to take
107 lumens in exchange for five US
dollars I didn't know who they were I
don't care who they are I just want to
get five US Dollars and I willing to
spend hundreds of lives to to get that
the other obvious example is to make a
payment to somebody else and we can use
the same key base flow to achieve that
now we've got some some US dollar tokens
we can pay let's pay our our good friend
Colton send some other assets let's see
what he accepts he accepts Bitcoin sorry
buddy I'm not going to give you one
Bitcoin but let's see it okay we don't
wanna make it wealthy off of this and
let's use our five US dollar tokens
let's see we have to send three point
forward US dollar tokens
to get to pick one it actually looks
like it's consuming a couple of
different paths so it's going to go to
actually arrive in Colton's wallet as
the 0.005 Bitcoin it's going to go
through a couple of different order
books couple different order paths to
get there I don't care about any of that
but can you imagine trying to go into
all of these order books to actually
make this exchange happen I mean for one
time would be involved and so the rate
is probably going to be different
between all that but then it's also just
very difficult to make that happen you
could do it and it could be manual and
it could work but wouldn't it be really
nice if all of this could just happen in
a single payment never having to touch
an order book and I can do all of this
from the comfort of my key base wallet
we are sending him too few offers looks
like it looks like our payment failed
probably we took too long to to get it
there we'll try it one more time
sometimes these payments could fail if
if one of the order books isn't all that
liquid so I don't know how liquid the
Bitcoin market is I also don't know how
key base is doing there pathfinding
we'll try this one more time if it
doesn't work I'll just use my lumens
again hope a that time
succeeded nice so an interesting thing
here if we go to Colton's address and we
pop this into Stellar expert here this
is on the public network we should see
OOP we should see that he's got himself
some some Bitcoin tokens that we just
paid him from our address and we can
even see the past that that went through
if we look up this operation yeah so you
can see all the trades that were
consumed to
to make that possible pretty pretty
interesting but just a very again a very
basic example of doing something it
would be incredibly complex to do
manually and something that maybe we do
sometimes right where we want to make
exchanges through different assets to
arrive at a final payment the way we can
do that very simply through just the in
this case the key base exchange or the
key base wallet so last but not least a
quote-unquote Enterprise example if we
were to go to I've got a path payment
example demo set up that I use to help
explain sort of the enterprise idea of
path payments and when I say enterprise
I really just mean all of the pieces so
we're just gonna go and create so we
have this market right so they're assets
where things have to move if I want to
be able to send US dollars the value of
US dollars to my friend and have it
arrived as euro tokens that requires
that there be order books set up for
both of those things
both USD and euros so we'll need to make
markets if we have a market maker here
he's going to need we're going to need
somebody out there that has USD tokens
and euro tokens
and is putting those out an order book
which can then be consumed where is this
path between US dollar to euros can
somehow happen because it doesn't happen
magically it happens off of orders that
are already on exchanges already on the
decentralized exchange books so now we
have US dollar and euro markets made so
let's create our wallet in our friends
wallet here with the example again of
we're going to have US dollars here and
we want our friend to receive euros so
we're going to purchase with our xlm
we're going to purchase a few US dollar
tokens will notice the books over here
will start to change we just spent some
xlm to get some euros so we'll see the
books over here looks like we just
bought some US dollars with our xlm so
we have just under 25 there and if we
click send it's going to create the
trust line on our friends account and
then take the US dollars over to the
order book here turn them back into xlm
so that it can go from xlm to euros and
then send those euros to our friend but
we never accept euros and our friend
never gets US dollar it goes through the
books to get there and our market maker
is the one who receives euro into US
dollar and X align so we'll click that
that'll create the trust land on her
friends account
I didn't create the books if we look at
our books over here I think we'll see
this one change and this one yeah so
we've gone through the order books and
our friend has received 10 euros we've
spent some US dollars to make that
happen and we can see over here that the
excellent value for a market maker has
been up he's starting to make a little
bit of lumen profit hopefully if the
spread here is is good market makers can
make money off of the spread as users
send path payments or use the books to
send those path payments so that's
pretty pretty interesting and so those
are three kind of basic examples but
also very powerful examples of how you
can use PAP payments right now if you're
interested in seeing the code behind
this it's open source there'll be links
in the description of this video
where you can go and play it play around
with this enterprise example our good
friend Colton also has a very good
document explainer on path payments that
he wrote up so make sure and go and
check that out if you have further
questions there
enterprise example I mean I'm not gonna
walk through all this if you want to
take a screenshot or spend some time
reading about this this is kind of our
bullet point list of where the
interesting parts are in path payments
as well as just kind of an explainer on
why I think path payments are so
valuable and I'm a very interesting use
case kind of here at the end right I
would like to see market makers actually
being made from within applications so
the yet when you when you switch off
from assets being the thing that you
want to the value being the thing that
you want when you can actually transact
in value versus assets like why don't in
my bank account light up why don't I
have you know Canadian dollars and
Australian dollars and euros and was
because those things are valuable to me
because I can't use them
because I can't make trend I can't do
transactions in them I can't go to the
grocery store and buy groceries with
Canadian dollars I need US dollars but
once you have path payments I absolutely
can make payments with Canadian dollars
because I can make a path payment and
wherever I'm spending my money I just
say hey I've got Canadian dollars but at
the end of the day I would like the
payment to be made to be received in
u.s. dollars and so long as they're
active markets for whatever the asset
that I hold are so long as that's a
value by somebody I'm willing to hold
that and so wouldn't it be interesting
if an application took advantage of that
fact that it's it's not the assets that
are valuable it's the value that those
assets represent and let's begin to
transact in the value and the liquidity
can be created through a volume of users
rather than a volume of assets I guess
there still is volume of assets but
there's no longer this limitation this
this some localized a limitation of I
can only use this asset as far as my
feet can walk and my car can drive it's
now I'm willing to hold asset so long as
they're valued by somebody somewhere
which is quite interesting okay
obviously there's a lot more we could
talk about but we'll leave it there for
now I'll answer any questions that
people have and then as you begin to
develop or have other questions make
sure
I'm on key base and Twitter so ask
questions there I'm around a lot it's my
job to answer questions and hope you
could assist and implement these things
so feel free to reach out let's see
we've got one question here the atomic
nature of path payments and what that
means so atomic is really that something
happens all at once that there's not
this process this manual or time-based
process of okay now we're going to do
this and then in 10 seconds later we're
going to do this and then we're gonna do
this and this and this it all happens in
one package where all of the the pieces
in this case of a pain moving through
assets moving through different order
books they're all happening within a
single transaction so when when you look
at that path payment that I sent to
Colton it consumed a lot of different
order books that we're offering
different assets and so as that value
moves from exo-m to US dollar from US
dollar to Nigerian naira from Nigerian
naira to euro tokens or figure until
khun's back to whatever asset you want
it's doing all of that within a single
operation within a single series of
payments so instead of within Stellar
you've got this concept of Ledger's so
every five seconds a new ledger clears
this whole payment is going to happen
within a single ledger which allows the
the the fee structure I guess they're
like how much of the asset how much of
the final asset is the is the last
person the last leg of the journey and
what are they going to receive that's
relatively stable because it's all
happening within a single ledger rather
than it being spread across you might
look at coin base and say okay a Bitcoin
token is worth X and I've got a u.s.
dollar token and so if I move it through
aetherium and then over to aji USD and
then over to USD C so long as I can kind
of do that quickly there's a good chance
that maybe it's like this arbitrage type
thing where I might be able to make a
profit or it might be worth it to do
these non-atomic payments flow within
Stellar because you have this path limit
acknowledging all of that chaining
together is happening
all at one time in a single ledger for
that one payment you have a much greater
assurance that the final value of this
some person might receive which is
fantastic and it also happens very very
quickly you don't have to manually go in
you don't have a bunch of different
api's connecting to different exchanges
or watching the books and having to
cancel or revert something it all just
happens and as you noticed with the with
the failure it may have when I when I
initially look at the UI within key base
a certain path might exist but then when
I go to actually make that payment it
failed because one of those payments
that it had looked up was no longer
valid the ledger had consumed it during
the whatever was twenty seconds that I
was watching I was looking at it waiting
to make that payment and so it failed
and that atomic nature's also allows a
level of security which is quite good
can people all over the world use it now
absolutely yeah so anywhere there are
assets again you can't just arbitrarily
pick some token I took enough to exist
there has to be some level of trades I
mean again you saw that payment fail so
at times there will be books that aren't
that liquid that the path is not is not
good or it's not strong you'll lose too
much value if you actually go to these
guides that are listed here there's the
stricter strict send and strict receive
which basically says the end the end
purse the end a receiver has to receive
X amount or
the strict send I'm only willing to send
X amount regardless of what the receive
is so there are some safeguards and if
those safeguards don't clear then the
transaction will fail which is good but
yes anybody can use it it's just a
matter of part of the assets that I want
to send are there is there the quiddity
is there are there orders on books
somewhere for the path to go through
which is again one of the reasons that I
think this becomes very interesting when
users are also liquidity providers is
they're willing to hold assets and put
those assets on order books because they
recognize that there's opportunity there
to make profit off the spread again
that's going to be a service based thing
you know if if a wallet allowed you to
do that kind of thing it might be an
interest opportunity I don't know but it
would be quite interesting to explore
that capability of that positive
but anybody in the world can use it
because it's the decentralized exchange
anywhere ever you can connect to Stellar
you can begin sending these path
payments and sending yourselves
marketers etc why does the Center Dex
have lower volume than traditional
exchanges that's going to be you know
the first to market type thing as well
as the kinds of assets they're held
there again when we're talking about the
quiddity nobody wants their payment to
fail and so until there are the
liquidity is kind of like the chicken
and the egg problem users don't want to
use a an exchange where either the
prices are bad or the assets that they
want don't exist
but then also businesses don't want to
build a large you know build an
enterprise on top of something where
there are no users so you kind of need
both of these things to happen at the
same time which is again something I
think is really interesting
when it comes to is there a way to kind
of have both of those things exist at
the same time where users are liquidity
providers and both of these things kind
of happen at the same time that it
doesn't necessarily have to be a chicken
and egg problem that they can the
chicken is the egg weight that seems
like the analogy breaks down but
hopefully you get the point
and it is like the the Stellar Dex is
becoming more likely to becoming much
more active it may be on select markets
but it is becoming much more active I
think a big difference is what is the
distributed exchange on Stellar built
for is but for payments and sending
assets across borders and that's not
true of a lot of exchanges which may be
more for investments or even for just I
want to move or store value it may be
speculative and a lot of it's like
first-to-market coin base is huge for
stuff like that and by Nance and others
just by being first to market so it
takes takes time to build it up but it
so long as you have that liquidity and
users and applications that are being
built there it definitely happens and it
happens very quickly and a big advantage
of the Stellar exchange is that it's
decentralized there's not one entity
that owns control over it which is why
you can begin using it right now today
you don't have to go through a kyc
process to start using the HT exchange
which is which is pretty great
could we do a course on how to become
a market maker absolutely I would not be
the person to give that talk but we
definitely have folks internally who who
could give talks like that so it's a
it's again it's one of those really
interesting problems that I think we're
really only beginning to understand or
to see and explore the capabilities and
possibilities understanding what does
liquidity mean what is a market maker
not just traditionally but what could a
market maker be what do we altom utley
need for this thing to work that would
be a really interesting talk one that I
would love to sit in on myself would
businesses some people use the system or
is very different platform for
businesses now this would be the same
platform again we're an API software
service so we provide the software and
then users and enterprises or businesses
are going to decide like okay how do we
implement this and the way that you
implement that might be on a service
base layer an API base layer you may
build a company around the way the
pathnames work I think again especially
in like wallet scenarios or venmo where
cash app type things built on crypto
it'll be really interesting to explore
how to path payments work I mean just
the ability to send cross-border
payments through an app would be amazing
but there is an aspect of that the users
need that to be a thing that exists but
then also businesses need to build
services that utilize those and then you
also need anchor providers or this this
on off ramp where people can actually
move their US dollar tokens and their
euro tokens from the Stellar network to
their bank so that they can buy
groceries or there needs to be
implementations at grocery stores that
are willing to accept those as forms of
those tokens themselves as forms of
payment so you don't necessarily have to
move into traditional financial
architecture but a lot of that is still
exploratory and I think rather than
assuming that we want to build something
first for the entire world like look at
the problems that are around you or
problems that you see in the world in
specific areas and build to solve for
those and almost use that as a test case
to say how can this be used and how can
this and improve the lives of a million
people and then try and solve for a
billion people so
building something small first and then
exploring that beyond but yeah like the
the functionality of path payments is
incredible both for from a user
perspective and also from a business
being able to make money off markets
acquitting providers you can also like
you now have business access to
everybody in the world rather than just
the West or just where you exist like
you can begin to expand those things out
for where you can do business which is
quite cool all right well that looks
like all the questions I'm seeing so I
really appreciate you all coming out
again if you have further questions or
need clarification on anything feel free
to reach out to me on key bass or
Twitter
my user name is right there t.y vdh and
i'd love to answer any questions again
thanks so much
stay tuned like we do this every two
weeks this is the first one but the 24th
Expo two weeks on Friday
there's going to be an another talk I
think Colton is doing it on the
usability of Stellar applications so
another very important problem to solve
and aspect that a seller has a lot to
help out with so be sure and tune in and
two weeks for that
okay-dokey thank you so much for tuning
in and we will see you guys later
you